React Native the same as React
is a component based framework.
This means that your app is basically
built out of these tiny little Lego books,
and they are nested within each other.
And we want to reuse
them as much as possible.
Generally you have one root component.
In our case, this is the app j s,
and this is the entry point for
your whole application.
And inside it will have lots,
and lots, and
lots of little components that are inside
each other next to each other and
we want to reuse them as much as possible.
Yeah, it's generally good practice
to break your app into many
small components and
it has a couple of benefits.
It promotes component reuse,
like you've already built a button you
made sure that it interacts correctly.
It has the right colors why would
you want to build it twice, and
it's easier to follow.
No one wants to debug a 1000 line react
component if they can help it, and
finally, it's easier to test.
It's significantly easier to unit test
a small component than it is a huge one.
Now, let's look at the app
that we've built so far.
Can you see something that can
be extracted into a component?
Well, I think the colored boxes
is a pretty good candidate for
being refactored.
So let's see that in general.
Yeah, in general in react,
we have a components directory
where we add our components.
So let's go to the root directory of your
project, and let's create a new folder.
How do I create folders here,
yeah called components.
And now inside this component let's
create a new file called color box.js.
This is going to be our
reusable colored box component.
I always start all new components
with my default hello world,
display something in the screen
to make sure it's working code.
So let's do this here as well.
So let's import React.
Okay, [SOUND] let's import the view and
text from react-native.
Now let's create a constant
component called ColorBox.
Let's have it return,
same as what we did before,
we just have a view with some text inside.
And finally don't forget to return that
ColorBox component as the default export.
You can have multiple components per file,
but generally, a good practice is just
to stick with one component per file
[be]cause then you don't lose them,
you'll just see what the components
are based on file names.
Now that we have this component,
let's import it to our app and
display it on the screen.
So let's import ColorBox
from './components/ColorBox'
And let's add it after the last
box that we already have.
You should be seeing the text that you
added on the screen underneath all your
other boxes.
Now if you've not done React before,
one thing to note here is I've used a
what's called a self closing, JSX element.
So normally, JSX elements have
a starting tag and an ending tag.
So the ending tag has what they call,
the little dash to say that it ends it.
And then for
the one I called children inside.
Whereas this color box,
we don't want to pass any children into
it, so we just want the component itself.
So rather than having us do this,
which we wish we could,
and it's just empty children,
but it's redundant.
We just close it immediately, so
there's just a handy little feature.
Cool, so
what we should do now is let's just
copy the code that we had for
our first color box,
the cyan one, and add it here and
replace the content here.
You'll also have to copy the styles.
So I'm gonna create import StyleSheet.
And we need const styles,
use style sheet creates,
stylesheet create, and we have a box,
Style, and cyan style, And
a box text I'm just gonna
copy these styles over.
So box style,
Cyan, And text.
Cool, well this is working.
But now what we're doing is we're
just taking our cyan box and
created a color box for
it which is not very handy.
What we'd like is for
this box to display the color, and
the name of the color dynamically.
Now what we can use for
this, props, or properties.
You've already actually used properties,
specifically the style property, but, what
you might not know is that you can add
your own properties as many as you want.
So for the color box we have two
properties we would like to add.
We have the color name which in
this case is cyan and colorHex.
Now in order to get access to these
two properties in the color box,
they get passed into here.
So if you assign this to props,
you can replace cyan with props,
dots, color name and
you can replaces this
hex code with props dot,
I think I should call it hex code.
I think I called it hex
code in my solutions,
I'm gonna rename it to hex code.
Notice that if we want to use any
kind of variables in as text,
we have to wrap them into
curly braces cause that tells
react-native that this is text,
because if I didn't do this,
it would just render props.colorName
as a text which is not what we want.
And finally,
this is a convention in React.
And I think I'm going to follow throughout
this course that these structure,
the properties, so rather than having a
props here and doing props dot color name,
we can actually replace this with curly
braces and these structure the properties
directly, so we can do a color name, and
hex code and then just get rid of this.
So this is just a convenience, but
you'll see it all the time, so
it's good to get used to it.
And now finally, you notice that
still we use cyan here and styles.
Now if you remember,
we can pass in inline styles and
we can pass in multiple styles,
and we can do it all at once.
So we can add a constant
here called box color and
the background color hex code, and
just pass this in as a second argument.
Now we can get rid of
the actual color stat as well.
That's it,
this is our reusable color box component.
So now all we want to do is replace
all of the rest of the colors with it.
So let's create four of these, and
then just copy this we got blue,
magenta, orange,
I'm gonna copy the hex codes as well.
And finally we can get rid of all this.
And we can also get rid of the styles
here so the box, textbox, style,
and all the text style.
So you should only have the container and
textiles left.
Now we've basically converted
our component into,
we've refactored our code so
that our color box component is separate,
making our code much cleaner and
easier to read.